# Used-Car-Selector
## Overview
The Used Car Selector is a machine learning application designed to simplify the process of choosing a used car. By analyzing a variety of car features and expenses, the model provides recommendations for the best car options tailored to individual preferences and constraints.

This project stems from a personal challenge of finding the right used car where there is an overwhelming combination of options available like drivetrain, mileage, mpg and the associated costs. With the goal of streamlining the decision-making process, this project leverages the XGBoost model to with the aim of predicting used car suitability based on a user's criteria.

## Current Status
This project is currently a work in progress. I have developed a couple inital runs of the pipeline process by preprocessing the data to get it as clean as possible. So far, I have attempted to remove as many outliers as possible - some vehicle brands have vintage models, which sell for a significantly high price and I wanted to tailor this for an everyday user. I have also dropped features that have too many missing values that I cannot infer on my own like driver ratings becuase I don't wan't personal bias on each car model to be represented when training. I used a heatmap between the features I felt were most important to see certain correlations that would be helpful and used those as features and the price as the target. After training the model on an 80/20 split for training and testing respectively, I calculated a very high Mean Squared Error. Even after hypertuning parameters using GridSearch, I only saw an insignificant improvement. I am continuing with the data cleasing and feature engineering process to hopefully see greater improvements. 
